Hi everyone!
In this video we will learn generic exceptions via building exceptions.
Let's start by generic exceptions.
Handling.
In Python we can use the except keyword without specifying the type of exception to catch any type that
may occur in our code.
This called generic exception handler or a catch all exception handler.
We have two blocks, the try block and the accept block.
In the try block, we define the code that may raise an exception.
In the accept block, we define the code to handle the exception.
Using a generic exception handler can be useful when we are not sure about the type of exception that
may occur, or when we want to catch all exception in one place.
However, using a catch all exception handler can also make it harder to debug code, as we may not
know exactly which type of exception occurred and why.
For this reason, it's generally recommended to catch a specific exceptions whenever possible, as this
make the code easier to read and maintain.
Additionally, it's good practice to log exceptions instead of printing error messages.
So we can get more information about the error and track down issues more easily.
In the second part, we'll then exceptions in Python.
In Python, there are many building exceptions that are commonly used to handle errors and exceptions
in code.
Here are some of the most popular building exceptions.
First type error raised when an operation or function is applied to an object of inappropriate type.
Value error raised when an operation or function is applied to an object with correct type, but with
inappropriate value and x error raised when n and x is out of range.
Key error raised when x is not found in a dictionary.
Name error raised when a variable or name is not defined.
Zero Division error when division by zero occurs.
File not found.
Error raised when a file or directory is not found.
Assertion error when an assertion fails.
Overflow error raised when a mathematical operation overflows.
Syntax error when there is a syntax error in the code.
Attribute error when an object does not have an expected attribute.
Input output error when an input output operation fails.
Import error raised when an import statement fails.
And finally, runtime error is raised when an error that does not belong to any other category occurs.
These exceptions can be caught and handled using try except blocks in Python.
By catching and handling these exceptions, we can make our code more robust and prevent it from crashing
due to errors.
In the next chapter we will see together other some wielding exceptions in Python.
And that's it for this video.